Hello and welcome back to the Course table and the press tutorial will learn how to create these clusters.
And at the same time we also identified that even though they are telling us some sort of story and
they are identifying some trends that we're also seeing with our naked eye.
At the same time they might not be the final step in our analysis.
Maybe we can somehow refine these clusters to have an even better story.
And that's exactly what we're going to do today.
So to start off with let's just step away from this analytics in Tablo for a second and let's just do
some analytical and critical thinking for a bit.
So what company are we working for.
It's important to always remember the domain knowledge behind what you're doing.
It's a very powerful skill in a sense that capacity and ability to understand the domain knowledge.
So this company this company isn't just a company that produces parts for a factory.
This company isn't just a financial services organization that gives out loans to countries around the
world.
This company deals with people.
This company heavily actually relies on people.
In fact this company what they do is they come to your house they collect your washing and then they
take it to their store.
They wash it for you and then they bring it back.
So it's kind of like an outsourcing of your laundry.
That's a service that they provide and that's been their entire business.
So in this case as you can imagine their amount of work that they get is directly proportionate to the
amount of people that they can potentially service.
So what exactly I'm hinting at is population to put it very bluntly the amount of dirty clothes in the
city is directly correlated to the population of that city.
Other companies that service a population they might not have such a direct correlation of the amount
of work to the amount of people.
But for a laundry company the more people you have exactly proportionately the more you will have dirty
laundry in that city.
So population of a city might play actually a huge role in the analysis that we are about to perform
and that is important to always remember and understand so what if these cities so this company it works
all across different parts of the U.S..
And as we discussed at the beginning.
They can't afford to compete with the major players so they're not present in cities like New York like
San Francisco Los Angeles like that were not present in the very big big cities.
They're going for after the smaller cities still large cities of hundreds of thousands of population.
But at the same time a bit smaller so what if what is going on here is somehow related to the size of
the population maybe what if this trend that we're seeing here that even though they're investing more
and more into marketing they're not getting more and more people or they're not getting more and more
revenue maybe that is related to the fact that they've maxed out their capacity or their share of that
population and associated city.
Maybe there's some sort of correlation there.
Maybe those marketing efforts that they're investing into whether they're online or off line.
Maybe those marketing efforts have a limit of how much what purchase and what portion of the population
they can bring.
And in these specific cities maybe they're just smaller cities and maybe we'll see something going on
like that there so is a very powerful skill to have to be able to bring in external data sets into your
analysis to refine your analysis.
And that's exactly what we're going to do now.
So as you remember in our data said we had another file which was the population data set.
So let's go ahead and find that from what I can do is I can connect to that file.
I can create a new data source connection and as I remember it wasn't an Excel file was a CSP file so
if I go to text you will see here among these files U.S. cities population.
So this file contains information on the population of the cities of the top cities in the U.S. and
among them all of our cities are among those cities.
So what we could do is we could create a new connection and then we could create new tab.
And as you can see we have two separate connections.
So in order to bring these cities into the analysis what we would need to do is perform a blend and
that is one of the options that we have.
At the same time we can now do something that was not possible before and tabel previously and previous
older versions of Tablo what she could do is you couldn't create a cross started.
And so right now I want to create a joint and I want to join an Excel data source so that what we have
now to s.c.s the data file the one that we are going to connect to now the file with the populations
you couldn't do that in tablet but the tablet have created a facility that now you can create cross-out
adjoins and you can create a job for lots of different data sources.
Not everything but for a very a huge variety you can.
And one of them is Excel to see a.
So that's exactly what we're going to do.
We're going to click the Add button over here and from the dropdown we're going to select text file
because we're connecting just as we file you as cities population.
And once we've selected that as you can see it has been added.
Now before we talk about this joint first thing and we want to do is make sure it's being performed
correctly.
If we click on this button here you'll see that it's been matched by city.
But as we discussed there are duplicate cities in the US and more so they can be duplicate cities in
our data set.
So therefore this could be a do adjoint duplicate that's happening right now.
So just city by itself is not a good enough is not specific enough.
And as you can see that is exactly the case.
Right now we actually have 159 rows instead of 150.
So some rows indeed got duplicated in part as part of this join.
There's something very important you need to look out for.
So you always make sure you're performing the joint correctly.
In our case we want to not only join on city but we want to join on state from this data source and
state from this data source.
So we have to make sure that our Join has been performed correctly and now if I close this you'll see
that there is 150 rows.
So no duplication has occurred.
So if you scroll down you'll see that there's 150 rows and it's always a good thing to check to just
double check that you haven't performed any duplications of rows and that the Joines performed correctly.
And so now moving back to this great feature of cross data join would we actually create.
Here is a one of them.
One of those cross status joins.
We've got an Excel file on the left to see yes we found the right Preuss it was not possible.
Now we can do that.
We can.
In fact we can create connect a Asgill database with a Excel file and a CSP file and also add a minuscule
scale database so there's lots of different combinations that you can create a great shout out to the
guys from Tablo for creating this functionality.
It is going to make analytics much more fun and interesting and it will allow us to perform at least
that prusik we couldn't perform.
So that's a great great feature and now we're just going to proceed with this combined data set so we
can actually just rename and say combined data set and hear what we have is the original data set with
the blue lines at the top then we get Calford feels at the end and then Orange is the new data set.
So we all all we need from here is actually the population.
So the 2015 estimate.
So we're going to just select all the other columns hold down control and we're going to right click
and we're going to hide them because we don't need them in our analysis.
There is the estimate of the population which is going to call it population for all purposes.
And now we can proceed on to our advanced clustering or refined clustering and we'll start on that in
the next tutorial can't wait to see there.
Until then happy analyzing.